---
title: Seattle, car broke!
tags: ["2008", "fun"]
date: 2008-02-18
---
Ingrid and I went up to Seattle to hang out with Sara and to buy a <a href="http://estore.websitepros.com/1764795/-strse-153/Hilleberg%2C-two-person-tent%2C/Detail.bok">new tent</a>.  Sara made us a badass stew in a crock pot and we ate cookies as well.  What diet?  Did I mention we joined Fatty Bowl 2008?  It's lame or la-may as the French call it, but we've lost some weight which helps keeping you hungry.</p><p>We went tubing at Snoqualmie pass on Sunday, along with everyone else and their grandma.  We ditched the tubing and just slid on our butts on some little hill that was more fun anyway. </p></p>As we tried to leave Seattle my car decided to break a fuel pump and not start.  So we took a ride down to the airport in Sara's new car and got a rental car to Portland.  Next weekend will be us going back to Seattle to repair said pump.

## Photos 

{% gallery %} 
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_01.jpg;Ding looking at the stew for dinner
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_04.jpg;Ingrid and Sara checking out the Thai menus
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_06.jpg;Beer and Bigfoot
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_09.jpg;Ding and the Fremont Troll
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_10.jpg;
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_12.jpg;Ding and my breakfast
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_13.jpg;Snoqualmie Pass
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_14.jpg;Line for tubing
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_15.jpg;Me and Ingrid
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_16.jpg;Sara on the hill
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_17.jpg;Ingrid
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_19.jpg;Ingrid glacading
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_20.jpg;Sara
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_21.jpg;Sara
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_23.jpg;Ingrid giving me pointers
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_26.jpg;Ingrid
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_28.jpg;Sara at Mach 2
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_29.jpg;Me telling kid what to do
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_30.jpg;That's right, I'm in the air
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_31.jpg;Ingrid ready to go head first
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_35.jpg;Sara
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_36.jpg;Technique
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_37.jpg;Sara and me
2008/seattle_feb/seattle_39.jpg;Ding in the rental car
{% endgallery %}
